Question 25, which of the following
properties causes the element to be
promoted to its own render layer?
Is it z-index: 1, translate3d,
will-change: transform,
transform: rotate(45deg) position: fixed,
or position: absolute.
The right answers here is B, translate3d.
It's also C, will-change: transform, D,
transform: rotate, and E, position: fixed.
So first, let's just talk about
those rendering layers again.
So let's say that we just have this very
simple page with those four elements.
And we want to animate those
elements to the middle.
Now, what we can do is, with certain GPU
accelerated properties, we can essentially
create those own layers for
these elements that should move like that.
So now they're not on the same rendering
layer anymore with the yellow in,
blue one there on their own layer.
So now they can just when they move it's
just the layers that move around, it's not
the actual elements itself that as as we
mentioned before it's with the pixels in
the layout that it has recalculate every
time it's just a smooth transition.
This happens on the GPU, so your GPU is
made for animation, stuff like that, or
it's really good at that.
So, this just enables that
smoothness to your website.
There are certain, [LAUGH] okay,
weird transition, but yeah.
There are certain elements that will
always cause the browser to create
a rendering layer.
These are some of them.
So will-change: transform, position:
fixed, opacity, filter, transform.
There is also more than this, you also
have translate X, Y, 3D stuff we just saw,
backface-visibility, hidden,
will-change: opacity, a video elements.
I believe it's all video elements now.
Initially it was just with accelerated
decoding, but I'm not sure,
I think it's all video elements now,
and then we have a WebGL canvas.
So, WebGL has all these 3D stuff,
it needs to be accelerated.
And then also rotations.
So rotate y.
Maybe I can go back to
a front-end master's website.
Let's see,
probably now it just won't happen.
But let's say that,
I don't know, we just wanna,
say that this wrap here should
have a will-change: transform,
which doesn't make sense cuz
we're not transforming it.
I cannot type when I'm live.
Where is the layers?
Did I remove layers somehow?
Lots and more tools, layers.
Let's see if it created something for
that.
Yeah, here.
So
this is like the element we just
promote it to its own layer.
And you can see for
the compositing reasons,
this has a will-change:
transform compositing hint.
So now, it doesn't make sense
to have this in your own layer,
cuz we're not animating it or
anything, but yeah,
this is now its own little layer and
it uses almost three megabytes of memory.
So, again,
it doesn't make sense to do it here but
then you can see how these
properties affect rendering layers.
Cool, makes sense?
You just kind of gotta I guess not really
remember which properties cause a layer to
be promoted, but
cuz often it's pretty obvious which ones
do for example, with position: fixed it
does because it will always kind of
stay in the same place on the screen.
And otherwise you're scrolling animation
will be super janky, cuz on every scroll,
your page would have to read
layouts to repaint every time,
cuz it would having it
on a separate layer.
This allows these two layers
to smoothly kind of move.
[LAUGH] This isn't weird, but
on top of each other, so yeah.